feat(data integration): Add Snowflake data integration (#2678)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/data-integration/snowflake.md

# Ingest MQTT Data into Snowflake

::: tip

The Snowflake data integration is an EMQX Enterprise edition feature.

:::

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) is a cloud-based data platform that provides a highly scalable and flexible solution for data warehousing, analytics, and secure data sharing. Known for its ability to handle structured and semi-structured data, Snowflake is designed to store vast amounts of data while providing fast query performance and seamless integration with various tools and services.

This page provides a detailed introduction to the data integration between EMQX and Snowflake, and offers practical guidance on the rule and Sink creation.

## How It Works

Snowflake data integration in EMQX is a ready-to-use feature that can be easily configured for complex business development. In a typical IoT application, EMQX acts as the IoT platform responsible for device connectivity and message transmission, while Snowflake serves as the data storage and processing platform, handling the ingestion, storage, and analysis of this message data.

> ![azure-blob-storage-architecture](/Users/emqx/Documents/GitHub/emqx-docs/en_US/data-integration/assets/azure-blob-storage-architecture.png)

Reviewer: This does not look right.

> EMQX utilizes rules engines and Sinks to forward device events and data to Snowflake. Applications can read data from Snowflake for further data applications. The specific workflow is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EMQX utilizes rules engines and Sinks to forward device events and data to Snowflake. End users and applications can then access data in Snowflake tables. The specific workflow is as follows:
```

1. **Device Connection to EMQX**: IoT devices trigger an online event upon successfully connecting via the MQTT protocol. The event includes device ID, source IP address, and other property information.
2. **Device Message Publishing and Receiving**: Devices publish telemetry and status data through specific topics. EMQX receives the messages and compares them within the rules engine.
3. **Rules Engine Processing Messages**: The built-in rules engine processes messages and events from specific sources based on topic matching. It matches corresponding rules and processes messages and events, such as data format transformation, filtering specific information, or enriching messages with context information.

> 4. **Writing to Snowflake**: The rule triggers an action to write the message to Storage Container. Using the Snowflake Sink, users can extract the necessary data and store it in Snowflake in structured formats such as CSV files, ensuring the data is organized for efficient analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Writing to Snowflake**: The rule triggers an action to write messages to Snowflake Stage, and load it into a Snowflake table.
```

- **Flexible Data Operations**: The Snowflake Sink offers flexibility in data handling by allowing users to select specific fields to write into Snowflake, enabling efficient and dynamic storage configurations tailored to business needs.
- **Integrated Business Processes**: The Snowflake Sink allows device data to be combined with the rich ecosystem applications of Snowflake, enabling more business scenarios like data analysis and archiving.
- **Low-Cost Long-Term Storage**: Snowflake’s scalable storage infrastructure is optimized for long-term data retention at a lower cost compared to traditional databases, making it an ideal solution for storing large volumes of IoT data.

These features enable you to build efficient, reliable, and scalable IoT applications and benefit from business decisions and optimizations.

## Before You Start

This section introduces the preparations required before creating a Snowflake Sink in EMQX.

### Prerequisites

- Understanding of [rules](./rules.md).
- Understanding of [data integration](./data-bridges.md).

### Initialize Snowflake ODBC driver

> To enable EMQX to communicate with Snowflake and efficiently transfer data, it is necessary to install and configure the Snowflake Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) driver. It acts as the communication bridge, ensuring that data is properly formatted, authenticated, and transferred.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to the official ODBC driver page https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/odbc/odbc-download, and the license agreement https://sfc-repo.snowflakecomputing.com/odbc/Snowflake_ODBC_Driver_License_Agreement.pdf

#### Linux

Run the following script to install the Snowflake ODBC driver and configure the `odbc.ini` file:

```

> scripts/install-snowflake-driver.sh

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it isn't better to just delegate the ODBC driver installation instructions to Snowflake docs: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/odbc/odbc

This script is intended for our local development and testing environment, and does some choices that are very particular for these environments.

Or at least warn the users that this script is for testing only, not a recommendation on how to setup production environments.

| Field                  | Value                                            |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Data Source Name (DSN) | `snowflake`                                      |
| Username               | `snowpipeuser`                                   |
| Password               | `Snowpipeuser99`                                 |
| Database Name          | `testdatabase`                                   |
| Schema                 | `public`                                         |
| Stage                  | `emqx`                                           |
| Pipe                   | `emqx`                                           |
| Pipe User              | `snowpipeuser`                                   |
| Private Key            | `file://<path to snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem>` |

#### Generate RSA Key Pair

To securely connect to Snowflake, generate an RSA key pair for authentication using the following commands:

```bash
openssl genrsa 2048 | openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -out snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem -nocrypt
openssl rsa -in snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem -pubout -out snowflake_rsa_key.public.pem
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I suggest adding a reference to Snowflake's docs on this matter: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth

1. In the Snowflake console, open the SQL Worksheet and execute the following SQL commands to create the database, table, stage, and pipe:

   ```sql
   USE ROLE accountadmin;
   
   CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS testdatabase;
   
   CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE testdatabase.public.emqx (
       clientid STRING,
       topic STRING,
       payload STRING,
       publish_received_at TIMESTAMP_LTZ
   );
   
   CREATE STAGE IF NOT EXISTS testdatabase.public.emqx
   FILE_FORMAT = (TYPE = CSV PARSE_HEADER = TRUE FIELD_OPTIONALLY_ENCLOSED_BY = '"')
   COPY_OPTIONS = (ON_ERROR = CONTINUE PURGE = TRUE);
   
   CREATE PIPE IF NOT EXISTS testdatabase.public.emqx AS
   COPY INTO testdatabase.public.emqx
   FROM @testdatabase.public.emqx
   MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME = CASE_INSENSITIVE;
   ```

2. Create a new user and set the RSA public key for that user:

   ```sql
   CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS snowpipeuser
       PASSWORD = 'Snowpipeuser99'
       MUST_CHANGE_PASSWORD = FALSE;
   
   ALTER USER snowpipeuser SET RSA_PUBLIC_KEY = '
   <YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY_CONTENTS_LINE_1>
   <YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY_CONTENTS_LINE_2>
   <YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY_CONTENTS_LINE_3>

>    <YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY_CONTENTS_LINE_4>

Reviewer 2: Add a comment specifying that one needs to remove the '-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----' and '-----END PUBLIC KEY-----' lines from the PEM file, and include the remaining content preserving line breaks.

   ';
   ```

3. Create and assign the required role to the user for managing the Snowflake resources:

   ```sql
   CREATE OR REPLACE ROLE snowpipe;
   
   GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE testdatabase TO ROLE snowpipe;
   GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA testdatabase.public TO ROLE snowpipe;
   GRANT INSERT, SELECT ON testdatabase.public.emqx TO ROLE snowpipe;
   GRANT READ, WRITE ON STAGE testdatabase.public.emqx TO ROLE snowpipe;
   GRANT OPERATE, MONITOR ON PIPE testdatabase.public.emqx TO ROLE snowpipe;
   GRANT ROLE snowpipe TO USER snowpipeuser;
   ALTER USER snowpipeuser SET DEFAULT_ROLE = snowpipe;
   ```

## Create a Connector

Before adding the Snowflake Sink, you need to create the corresponding connector in EMQX to establish the connection with Snowflake.

1. Go to the Dashboard **Integration** -> **Connector** page.
2. Click the **Create** button in the top right corner.
3. Select **Snowflake** as the connector type and click next.
4. Enter the connector name, a combination of upper and lowercase letters and numbers. Here, enter `my-snowflake`.
5. Enter the connection information.

>    - **Server Host**: The server host is the Snowflake endpoint URL, typically in the format `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account>.snowflakecomputing.com`. You need to replace `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account>` with the subdomain specific to your Snowflake instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **Server Host**: The server host is the Snowflake endpoint URL, typically in the format `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account Name>.snowflakecomputing.com`. You need to replace `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account Name>` with the subdomain specific to your Snowflake instance.
```

>    - **Server Host**: The server host is the Snowflake endpoint URL, typically in the format `<Your Snowflake Account>.snowflakecomputing.com`. You need to replace `<Your Snowflake Account>` with the subdomain specific to your Snowflake instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Server Host**: The server host is the Snowflake endpoint URL, typically in the format `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account>.snowflakecomputing.com`. You need to replace `<Your Snowflake Organization ID>-<Your Snowflake Account>` with the subdomain specific to your Snowflake instance.
```

>    - **Account**: Enter your Snowflake account name, which is part of the URL you use to access the Snowflake platform and can be found in your Snowflake console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Account**: Enter your Snowflake Organization ID and Snowflake account name separated by a dash (`-`), which is part of the URL you use to access the Snowflake platform and can be found in your Snowflake console.
```

   - **Password**: Enter `Snowpipeuser99`, as defined during the previous setup process.
6. Before clicking **Create**, you can click **Test Connectivity** to test if the connector can connect to the Snowflake.
7. Click the **Create** button at the bottom to complete the connector creation.

You have now completed the connector creation and can proceed to create a rule and Sink to specify how the data will be written into Snowflake.

## Create a Rule with Snowflake Sink

This section demonstrates how to create a rule in EMQX to process messages from the source MQTT topic `t/#` and write the processed results to the Snowflake through the configured Sink.

1. Go to the Dashboard **Integration** -> **Rules** page.

2. Click the **Create** button in the top right corner.

3. Enter the rule ID `my_rule`, and input the following rule SQL in the SQL editor:

   ```sql
   SELECT
     clientid,
     unix_ts_to_rfc3339(publish_received_at, 'millisecond') as publish_received_at,
     topic,
     payload
   FROM
       "t/#"
   ```

   ::: tip

   If you are new to SQL, you can click **SQL Examples** and **Enable Debug** to learn and test the rule SQL results.

   :::

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ::: tip
   
   For Snowflake integration, it's important that the selected fields exactly match the number of columns and their names of the table defined in Snowflake, so avoid adding extra fields or selecting from `*`. 
   
   :::

```

5. Enter the Sink's name (for example, `snowflake_sink`) and a brief description.

6. Select the `my-snowflake` connector created earlier from the connector dropdown. You can also click the create button next to the dropdown to quickly create a new connector in the pop-up box. The required configuration parameters can be found in [Create a Connector](#create-a-connector).

7. Configure the following settings:

   - **Database Name**: Enter `testdatabase`. This is the Snowflake database that was created for storing EMQX data.
   - **Schema**: Enter `public`, the schema within the `testdatabase` where the data table is located.
   - **Stage**: Enter `emqx`, the stage created in Snowflake for holding the data before loading it into the table.
   - **Pipe**: Enter `emqx`, the pipe automating the loading process from the stage to the table.
   - **Pipe User**: Enter `snowpipeuser`, the Snowflake user with the appropriate permissions to manage the pipe.

>    - **Private Key**: Enter the path to the private RSA key, for example, `file://<path to snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem>`. This is the key used for secure authentication, necessary for accessing the Snowflake pipe securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Private Key**: Enter the path to the private RSA key, for example, `file://<path to snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem>`, or the content of RSA private key file. This is the key used for secure authentication, necessary for accessing the Snowflake pipe securely.
```

>    - **Private Key**: Enter the path to the private RSA key, for example, `file://<path to snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem>`, or the content of RSA private key file. This is the key used for secure authentication, necessary for accessing the Snowflake pipe securely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **Private Key**: Enter the path to the private RSA key, for example, `file://<path to snowflake_rsa_key.private.pem>`, or the content of RSA private key file. This is the key used for secure authentication, necessary for accessing the Snowflake pipe securely.  Note that, if using a file path, the file path must be the same on all cluster nodes and must be readable by the EMQX application user.
```

8. Select the **Upload Mode**: Currently, only `Aggregated Upload` is supported. This method groups the results of multiple rule triggers into a single file (e.g., a CSV file) and uploads it to Snowflake, reducing the number of files and improving write efficiency.

> 9. Select **Aggregation Type**: Currently, only `csv` is supported. Data will be written to Snowflake in comma-separated CSV format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Select **Aggregation Type**: Currently, only `csv` is supported. Data will be staged to Snowflake in comma-separated CSV format.
```

   - **Time Interval**: Set the time interval (in seconds) at which aggregation occurs. For example, if set to `60`, data will be uploaded every 60 seconds even if the maximum number of records hasn’t been reached, resetting the maximum number of records.

10. Expand **Advanced Settings** and configure the advanced setting options as needed (optional). For more details, refer to [Advanced Settings](#advanced-settings).

11. Use the default values for the remaining settings. Click the **Create** button to complete the Sink creation. After successful creation, the page will return to the rule creation, and the new Sink will be added to the rule actions.

12. Back on the rule creation page, click the **Create** button to complete the entire rule creation process.

You have now successfully created the rule. You can see the newly created rule on the **Rules** page and the new Snowflake Sink on the **Actions (Sink)** tab.

You can also click **Integration** -> **Flow Designer** to view the topology. The topology visually shows how messages under the topic `t/#` are written into the Snowflake after being parsed by the rule `my_rule`.

## Test the Rule

> This section shows how to test the rule configured with the direct upload method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows how to test the configured rule.
```

(there's no direct mode)
